In this video we're going to download and
install IntelliJ IDEA, which is the IDE
Integrated Development Environmental
editor, program if you will, that we're
going to be using to run our programs in
this course, to actually create and run
our programs, for that matter. So to
download that, we're going to go to
jetbrains.com, www.jetbrains.com
Once we get there we're going to come up to the
Tools menu at the top, select IntelliJ IDEA,
you can see here, click on that. Click on
download.
You can click on this little I agree, just to get rid of that on the screen. Now you've got two options here,
when you go to download IntelliJ IDEA. You can
grab the Community Edition which we'll
be doing, which is free open source.
You'll never need to pay for it.
Alternatively you can choose the
Ultimate Edition which gives you the few
extra options, and basically is for
commercial developers. You can see if I
scroll down, there's some extra features
there; Javascript, Typescript, Java
Enterprise Edition, Spring etc. So
basically, it gives you more
functionality, which is how the company
makes their money, but the fact that they
offer a free version, which is fully
featured and certainly enough for you
to use in this course, is fantastic.
So we're going to click on download, here,
to download the Community Edition.
Alright, so I'm now gonna give that a
moment now to complete.
Alright, you can see that IntelliJ IDEA Community Edition,
that's the C in IDEA there,
has finished downloading. Click on the little
magnifying glass there to open Finder.
We're going to double click the
dmg file to start installing it.
I'm going to close down Safari because we
don't need that anymore,
and I'll close down the Finder window for now as well because we really don't need that either.
Drag it into applications, as no doubt you've
done before with applications on a Mac.
Give that a moment to install.
So I mentioned we're going to do some configuration of IntelliJ IDEA in another video,
but we'll do the first parts of it in this video. So I'm going to go down now and double-click on the IntelliJ
icon, IntelliJ IDEA CE. CE stands for
Community Edition. That's the free
version that we've downloaded and now
installed. Double-click that to start off
the process. I'm going to close down Finder now,
and close down the install window there,
the installation, and I'll actually eject
IntelliJ IDEA CE because we've now
finished with the installation.
Alright we've got an option here telling us that it's from the app,
the app is being downloaded from the internet, Are you sure?
Well it's from jetbrains.com, which is the
official site for IntelliJ, so that's fine.
I'm going to click on open as you saw.
We're prompted for this option: If you're
installing IntelliJ IDEA for the first
time, we haven't got any settings to
import, but if you had a previous
installation you could click on the top
option, Config installation folder,
and basically that would give the option to
drag those settings from the previous
version into this current version, this
new version we're installing.
I'm going to select Do not import settings because
it's a brand new install. Click OK.
Privacy politic policy there, check the
check box, click on continue. You can read
that if you like. We can send anonymous
data about features and plugins if you want.
I generally click on Don't send but
you can choose either option.
We're now presented with an option; which type of
screen color you would like. I'm going to
leave mine set to light, and light comes
out better for videos, but if you prefer
to use darkula, and that's my
development machine, is certainly using
that - it's easier on the eyes - then select
that, but choose whichever one you want,
noting you can change these options
later in Preferences. I'm gonna click on next.
Keymap scheme, I'm going to leave us defaults.
If you've used IntelliJ IDEA
before, you can change that by choosing the
option on the right. I'm going to click on Next.
This gives you the option to invoke
IntelliJ IDEA from the command line, if
that's something you're doing or have
done in the past, or want to do from the
command line, and check the box.
There's no harm in doing it, in any event, so  I'm going to do that.
You've got various tools here, and keep in mind that if
you've chosen to download and install
the Ultimate Edition, there'll be
additional features here. Generally I
just leave everything as is and I don't
change anything, because you can always
change plugins and add new plugins at a
later time as well. Click on Next.
Same deal there. I'm not going to change
any of those settings. You can come back to it
and you can see down here, preferences
plugins, if you do want to change that in the future.
Click on Start using IntelliJ
IDEA,
enter my password,
and IntelliJ IDEA should
start up for us now.
Ok, so at this point we're now done. I'm going to end the
video here. There is another video that
we'll go through, and we'll go through
and enter, or do the configuration
for IntelliJ IDEA, and
that's actually connecting the SDKs and
so on that we need for this course, but
we'll do all that in a separate video.
Thanks for watching. Let's move on now to the next video.